---
title: "Data Science Lab: Process and Methods (EN)"
collection: teaching
type: "Master Degree Course"
permalink: /teaching/data-science-lab-2021-2022
venue: "Politecnico di Torino"
date: 2021-10-01
location: "Turin, Italy"
---

This is a master-level course for student in “Data Science and Engineering” specialization. I’m involved as teaching assistant for lab practices. 

Course Description
======
The course, compulsory for the Master degree in Data science and Engineering, is offered on the 1st semester of the 1st year. The course is focused on the design and implementation of data-driven processes, which are commonly exploited today to extract knowledge from data and support decision-making. Specifically, the course initially introduces the data science process, focusing on all its main phases, and then provides the theoretical and practical knowledge about the data mining and basic machine learning algorithms that are commonly used for analyzing large and heterogeneous data. The course introduces also the Python language and the state of the art data mining and machine learning libraries. Many laboratory sessions, based on a learning-by-doing approach, allow experimental activities on all the phases of a standard data science process (e.g., data preparation and cleaning, data exploration and characterization, data mining algorithm selection and tuning, result evaluation) on the most widespread commercial and open-source products.

Expeted Learning Outcomes
======
- Knowledge of the main phases characterizing a data science process.
- Knowledge of the major data mining algorithms for classification, regression, clustering, and association rule mining.
- Knowledge of the Python language.
- Knowledge of the major data mining and machine learning libraries.
- Ability to design, implement and evaluate a data science process.
- Ability to design, implement and evaluate analytics scripts in the python language.
- Ability to use and tune data mining and machine learning algorithms.

Course page: [https://dbdmg.polito.it/dbdmg_web/index.php/2021/09/11/data-science-lab-process-and-methods/](https://dbdmg.polito.it/dbdmg_web/index.php/2021/09/11/data-science-lab-process-and-methods/)
